###overtone demos###

demo 1 - Given the sound of an instrument in a file play the file, show the waveform and plot 
	 its first few harmonics on an fft.

demo 2 - Show the difference between an open and closed instrument on an fft using sound files.

demo 3 - Given the sound of an instrument in real time show the waveform and plot its first few 	 harmonics on an fft before and after denoising. 

demo 4 - From the harmonics of different sounds draw the musical notes on a staff in real time.

demo 5 - From the harmonics show what the components and superposition of individual waves look 	 like for different instruments.

demo 6 - Given the harmonics of an instrument recreate the sound on an electronic keyboard/synth.

###chord demos###

demo 7 - Given the sound on a keyboard determine what chord is being played and draw it on a 
	 staff.

demo 8 - Given the sound on a keyboard determine what chord is being played and plot the 		 components and superposition of individual sound waves.

demo 9 - Given two or more notes show why the notes or chords are consonant or dissonant by 		 plotting their components and showing their periodicity.


###future (difficult) work###

demo 10 - Given segments from a musical piece determine what key it is in.

demo 11 - Given segments from a musical piece determine the rhythm in that segment.

demo 12 - Given segments from a musical piece determine its dynamics 

demo 13 - Given a recording of a musical piece attempt to recreate that piece on sheet music


###Physical properties of music to explore###
	pitch
	tambre
	chords
	consonance and dissonance
	what is noise vs what is music
	sounds in different media
	compare and contrast wave properties of light and sound (photons and phonons)
	sound as a longitudinal wave vs light as a transverse wave
	process of hearing
	monotonic vs polytonic (timbre)
	fundamental, harmonics, and overtones 
	superposition of waves and harmonics
	Fourier analysis
	overtones on a staff vs overtones on FFT
	describe different types of noise (white noise etc.)
	musical intervals and frequency ratios
	polychromatic and polytonic (white noise and white light)
	sound and amplitude is logarithmic (compare 100 to 200 and 800 to 900)
	melody vs harmony
	tonic, tuning system, and mode
	consonance determined by shared overtones and periodicity
	pentatonic, hexatonic, heptatonic, octatonic, dodecatonic as interval patterns
	Nonwestern music vs western music
	the less prime factors in an interval, the more consonant it sounds
	perfect fourth vs imperfect fourth interval is not good enough
	aeolian, locrian, ionian, dorian, phrygian, lydian, mixolydian diatonic scales
	inversions as pairs of intervals that together form an octave
	perfect fourth followed by a perfect fifth is uniquely the same if the order is reversed
	ideal tritone and the square root of two
	pentatonic scales and removing semitones
	minor pentatonic, major pentatonic, egyptian, minor blues, major blues
	equal temperament vs just intonation
